mve_intrinsics/mve.template.rst, before:

.. |copyright-date| replace:: 2019-2021
.. |release| replace:: 2021Q2
.. |date-of-issue| replace:: 02 July 2021
.. |footer| replace:: Copyright © |copyright-date|, Arm Limited and its
                      affiliates. All rights reserved.

==================
Arm MVE Intrinsics
==================

.. class:: logo

.. image:: Arm_logo_blue_RGB.svg
   :scale: 30%

.. class:: version

|release|

.. class:: issued

Date of Issue: |date-of-issue|

.. section-numbering::

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak oneColumn

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 4

Preface
#######

Abstract
========

This document is complementary to the main Arm C Language Extensions
(ACLE) specification, which can be found on the `ACLE project on
GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle>`_.

Latest release and defects report
=================================

For the latest release of this document, see the `ACLE project on
GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle>`_.

Please report defects in this specification to the `issue tracker page
on GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle/issues>`_.

License
=======

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. To view a copy of
this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ or
send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA
94042, USA.

Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
license (both the Public License and this Patent License), each
Licensor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell,
import, and otherwise transfer the Licensed Material, where such
license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
Licensor that are necessarily infringed by their contribution(s) alone
or by combination of their contribution(s) with the Licensed Material
to which such contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim
in a lawsuit) alleging that the Licensed Material or a contribution
incorporated within the Licensed Material constitutes direct or
contributory patent infringement, then any licenses granted to You
under this license for that Licensed Material shall terminate as of
the date such litigation is filed.

About the license
=================

As identified more fully in the License_ section, this project
is licensed under CC-BY-SA-4.0 along with an additional patent
license.  The language in the additional patent license is largely
identical to that in Apache-2.0 (specifically, Section 3 of Apache-2.0
as reflected at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) with two
exceptions.

First, several changes were made related to the defined terms so as to
reflect the fact that such defined terms need to align with the
terminology in CC-BY-SA-4.0 rather than Apache-2.0 (e.g., changing
“Work” to “Licensed Material”).

Second, the defensive termination clause was changed such that the
scope of defensive termination applies to “any licenses granted to
You” (rather than “any patent licenses granted to You”).  This change
is intended to help maintain a healthy ecosystem by providing
additional protection to the community against patent litigation
claims.

Contributions
=============

Contributions to this project are licensed under an inbound=outbound
model such that any such contributions are licensed by the contributor
under the same terms as those in the LICENSE file.

Trademark notice
================

The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Arm
under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 4.0 International
license ("CC-BY-SA-4.0”), with an additional clause on patents.
The Arm trademarks featured here are registered trademarks or
trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the US and/or
elsewhere. All rights reserved. Please visit
https://www.arm.com/company/policies/trademarks for more information
about Arm’s trademarks.

Copyright
=========

Copyright (c) |copyright-date|, Arm Limited and its affiliates.  All rights
reserved. 

Document history
================

+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Issue      |Date             |Change               |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q219-00    |30 June 2019     |Version ACLE Q2 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q319-00    |30 September 2019|Version ACLE Q3 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q419-00    |31 December 2019 |Version ACLE Q4 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q220-00    |30 May 2020      |Version ACLE Q2 2020 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
| |release| | |date-of-issue| |Open source release. |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+


List of Intrinsics
##################

{intrinsic_table}

Commit message:

[community] Update copyright information. NFCI
In the contribution guidelines [1] we state that Arm do not require
copyright assignment for any kind of contributions. The update is
needed to facilitate the update of the copyright infos for new
contributions.

We have left the pre open source reelase copyright statements, and
added the names of the people that have contributed so far since the
first opens source release [2].

We have also updated the License and Copyright sections of the
specifications to make them self contained in the document itself,
without reference to files that might not be shipped with the PDF file
of the specs.

Note: there are no functional changes in term of license.

[1] https://github.com/ARM-software/acle/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#contribution-agreement
[2] https://github.com/ARM-software/acle/releases/tag/r2021-07-02

mve_intrinsics/mve.template.rst, after:

..
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright 2019-2021 Arm Limited and its affiliates <www.arm.com>

   CC-BY-SA-4.0 AND Apache-Patent-License
   See LICENSE.md file for details

.. |copyright-date| replace:: 2019-2021
.. |release| replace:: Development version based on 2021Q2
.. |date-of-issue| replace:: TBD

==================
Arm MVE Intrinsics
==================

.. class:: logo

.. image:: Arm_logo_blue_RGB.svg
   :scale: 30%

.. class:: version

|release|

.. class:: issued

Date of Issue: |date-of-issue|

.. section-numbering::

.. raw:: pdf

   PageBreak oneColumn

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 4

Preface
#######

Abstract
========

This document is complementary to the main Arm C Language Extensions
(ACLE) specification, which can be found on the `ACLE project on
GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle>`_.

Latest release and defects report
=================================

For the latest release of this document, see the `ACLE project on
GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle>`_.

Please report defects in this specification to the `issue tracker page
on GitHub <https://github.com/ARM-software/acle/issues>`_.

License
=======

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. To view a copy of
this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ or
send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA
94042, USA.

Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
license (both the Public License and this Patent License), each
Licensor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell,
import, and otherwise transfer the Licensed Material, where such
license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
Licensor that are necessarily infringed by their contribution(s) alone
or by combination of their contribution(s) with the Licensed Material
to which such contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim
in a lawsuit) alleging that the Licensed Material or a contribution
incorporated within the Licensed Material constitutes direct or
contributory patent infringement, then any licenses granted to You
under this license for that Licensed Material shall terminate as of
the date such litigation is filed.

About the license
=================

As identified more fully in the License_ section, this project
is licensed under CC-BY-SA-4.0 along with an additional patent
license.  The language in the additional patent license is largely
identical to that in Apache-2.0 (specifically, Section 3 of Apache-2.0
as reflected at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) with two
exceptions.

First, several changes were made related to the defined terms so as to
reflect the fact that such defined terms need to align with the
terminology in CC-BY-SA-4.0 rather than Apache-2.0 (e.g., changing
“Work” to “Licensed Material”).

Second, the defensive termination clause was changed such that the
scope of defensive termination applies to “any licenses granted to
You” (rather than “any patent licenses granted to You”).  This change
is intended to help maintain a healthy ecosystem by providing
additional protection to the community against patent litigation
claims.

Contributions
=============

Contributions to this project are licensed under an inbound=outbound
model such that any such contributions are licensed by the contributor
under the same terms as those in the LICENSE file.

We do not require copyright assignment. The original contributor will
retain the copyright.

Trademark notice
================

The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Arm
under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 4.0 International
license ("CC-BY-SA-4.0”), with an additional clause on patents.
The Arm trademarks featured here are registered trademarks or
trademarks of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the US and/or
elsewhere. All rights reserved. Please visit
https://www.arm.com/company/policies/trademarks for more information
about Arm’s trademarks.

.. _ssec-copyright:

Copyright
=========

Copyright 2019-2021 Arm Limited and its affiliates <www.arm.com>

Document history
================

+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Issue      |Date             |Change               |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q219-00    |30 June 2019     |Version ACLE Q2 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q319-00    |30 September 2019|Version ACLE Q3 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q419-00    |31 December 2019 |Version ACLE Q4 2019 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
|Q220-00    |30 May 2020      |Version ACLE Q2 2020 |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+
| |release| | |date-of-issue| |Open source release. |
+-----------+-----------------+---------------------+

Changes for next release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Update copyright statement in ssec-copyright_.

List of Intrinsics
##################

{intrinsic_table}
